---
layout: post
title: 90% of college freshmen have never shared a room
---

<p>When I heard this statistic&mdash;which is a statistic for Pacific University, though likely to be fairly typical&mdash;I couldn't help but be a little discouraged by it.  Pacific's growth plans include the development of residence halls (dorms to anyone not used to higher-education speak) with rooms that will house individuals&mdash;no roommates.  If 90% of incoming students have never had to share space and resources with a sibling, how can we expect them to share space and resources on a larger scale.</p>
<p>While I will readily admit to having a room of my own for the majority of my middle and high school years, I experienced the benefit of compromise-laden living with my younger brother for about 10 years of our lives together.  Including my married years, I can say that I have spent twice as many years sharing a bedroom as not.  There is a lot to be gleaned from the ability to share a relatively small space on a regular basis.  With siblings, or with a life partner, there will inevitably be arguments and clashes of opinion, but it is the response to these conflicts that helps to shape our emotional intelligence.</p>
<p>While I believe you can learn empathy in a number of ways, it seems to be that the lessons learned from compromising with a roommate could be extremely valuable.  While there may be some merit to the solitude that an individual room in a residence hall could afford, I would hope that the incoming freshmen would be encouraged to share a little of themselves in a way more intimate than instant messaging&mdash;which increasingly seems to be the choice of the college-age crowd.</p>
